Welcome everyone to this week's Menlo Midweek Podcast.
My name is Mark.
We have Matt Semmers on.
Hey there.
We have Phil Yubank back with us.
Hey everybody.
Awesome.
And we are doing kind of a special episode this week.
It's exciting.
It's new.
It's fresh for me.
We just wrapped up a series and instead of doing our normal, we talk about the series, we're going to actually dive into a little bit of what is probably on everyone's hearts and minds for the last week, week and a half especially.
And that is just kind of talking about ice, the things that have happened in Minnesota and on a broad stroke of what is happening with our culture and nation now.
And so Phil, I'm sure you didn't get any emails this past week about this at all.
Matt, probably same with you.
I also want to flag the fact that just because of the way the news cycle works, we are recording this on Monday.
Stuff could happen literally on Monday that is going to change some of this.
If you just be gracious to us, this is going to come out midweek, I think.
So this is an evolving story.
We want to talk about it a little higher level than just the specifics of what's happening in this moment so that we don't just think about what to think.
We think about how we think and how we approach moments like this in culture.
I think in some ways, honestly, I sort of missed the mark in this conversation a little bit during some of what happened with COVID.
I mean, hindsight is always 2020, but
I just saw this like as, oh man, I think this is a little bit of like a BLM moment and I'm happy to break that down further.
But I want to make sure that I don't get caught flat footed and that God's people that he has trusted into our care are also being challenged as to how they think about it.
Even if we come to different viewpoints, like let's be Christ centered in the way we approach this and dialogue about it.
Yeah, I think that's great.
So let's just kind of get an overarching what is happening.
Fill for the listener that doesn't know what even the heck we're talking about, what has been going on.
Let's break down kind of maybe charitable steelman arguments from both sides of what's happening now, and then we can kind of unpack those and figure out where we can approach this thoughtfully and yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
we find ourselves at a moment that has been escalating for a long time really decades in which the immigration enforcement of america and specifically border policy oftentimes related to the american- mexican border uh... has you know really beyond question had millions of people come into the united states what magnitude that is people debate uh... but millions of people come to the united states
who are not documented, who are not legal citizens.
And as a result, you have one side sort of going, hey, the system's clearly broken.
We need the type of people that are willing to come in and do jobs in a working class that are honest and capable people and their jobs that, frankly, if they don't do them, our economy collapses.
And therefore, we should
allow them to come out of the shadows.
We should find ways for them to be legal citizens.
And then on the other side, you have a group of people who on the extreme of it are even it's even described as an invasion where there is this set of very violent people
who have nefarious intentions for our nation, who have used the weakness of the southern border to work their way into the United States to smuggle drugs, to commit violence, and now they are spread all throughout our nation, and it will take a militaristic level of intervention to change that, to save our nation.
And right now, those two really worldviews and perspectives on that
I would argue neither one of those extremes is true all by itself.
Some of both are probably worth considering, but those two extremes of worldviews are coming together and really hitting a crisis point with immigration customs and enforcement, ICE, and the protesters in the streets of places like Minneapolis, who are demanding that ICE be abolished.
And I think when a lot of people right now are looking at
violence on social media or on the news.
You know, a lot of very well-intentioned people who may even disagree on the policy of it.
They might be somewhere on any number of different places politically.
They're just going, can we deescalate?
Can we not have a United States military on the streets of our cities?
Can we find a way to do this that doesn't seem to get more and more violent?
And when you're in a place where we've accepted a binary,
I think when you find yourself on the militarized zone, people that aren't willing to do that with you, they're a part of the problem.
And here we are, it's 1930s Germany.
And then when you're on the other side where you view that sort of intervention as saving America after decades of inaction, anyone who is even
you know, sort of just suggesting that we deescalate it.
They're cultural Marxists who are trying to have open borders.
And so I just think it's important to recognize that's where we are.
That's probably the range of how we've looked at this, but not everybody isn't one of those two camps right now.
Yeah.
I think the thing that everybody has in common right now is that we're all either frustrated or fearful or just afraid
but just in different directions.
That's like the one common thing.
And what we do with that energy matters so much.
If we're fearing loss of control, we lash out.
If we fear power, state, influence, that sort of thing.
Both these fears, all of them are real.
What we do with them matters.
And I think when we, to Phil's point, when we idealize or idolize our own perspective,
we unintentionally demonize people that are on the other side of that.
And so trying to think through that clearly and cleanly is complicated, but it matters how we do it.
Definitely.
And I also think it's important to recognize that we live in a moment technologically that is incentivized to remove that nuance.
So it's not just the individual people or even the groups that we would go.
I don't like that political party.
I don't like that leader.
I don't like that person that's advocating that thing.
It's also
The algorithms have been designed in such a way to elicit as much anger and outrage as possible because they have identified the fact that that's what keeps us most engaged.
And our attention is the economy right now.
And so recognizing we are being manipulated into taking a hot situation and pouring gasoline on it, rather than taking a step back and going, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
How might we think about this?
There's not a lot of room for that right now.
They've talked a fair amount and various messages around kind of how we can help better discern what we are taking in.
So I think you bring up a great point about the algorithm itself.
And I would even suggest that the argument or the thing that's driving that algorithm would be new sites that are trying to from both sides, they're incentivized by clicks.
They're incentivized by, you know, attention.
And so as we are trying to, one, get a hold on and try to hold on to some, some variants of truth in situations that are painted so differently from side to side without that nuance, what are some ways in which we can try to figure out one, like, hey, how can we accurately assess what's happening for us then to begin to have an opinion and begin to then say, where can a crisis centered, where can a,
a nuanced perspective form out of outrage culture on this side and outrage culture on that side.
Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of it comes down to two things.
One, where are you getting news and information from?
If the only place that you're getting news and information from is your social media algorithm, your social media algorithm is by and large built to either give you perspectives and news framed in such a way,
that allows you a confirmation bias that your viewpoints are correct, or a straw man view of the opposition that you sort of get to own whatever group you disagree with in which you think to yourself, well,
what kind of an idiot would believe insert view or take so i think if you if you're getting your and this is a lot of americans right now if you are getting your news and information primarily from your social media feed it's time to expand your view uh... even something as simple as an and i just know there's no website that i could give on here
that people are not going to freak out about.
That's just the moment that we're in.
It's that divided.
But if you just go to a spectrum of news sources and select one that's going to pull you away from whatever quote unquote side you feel most identified with.
Honestly, just that will probably help you.
We've circulated some of those spectrums before.
We can probably put one of those in the show notes as well.
But honestly, just a normal news source that is a professional news source over time is going to source reports and is going to follow up on what they've suggested.
And it's not going to be everything.
And you're going to face this reality where the moral simplicity that
the algorithm and social media in particular allow us to live into.
is easier, way easier than going, hey, have you thought about this in a different perspective?
Have you looked for other options, maybe even take that story and put it into a chatbot and say, hey, can you steal man the other side of this for me?
And it's gonna go find some other stuff.
And you might not like what it has to say, but I think we owe ourselves, and we owe ourselves collectively doing the work of not settling for an easy or cheap argument.
I also think being in not outside of this immediate crisis I think being in relationship with people with whom we disagree with politically is so important because what Matt said it's so easy when when it's not it's not people it's just policies it's just headlines it's so easy to dehumanize people that we disagree with and I think it is a lot easier to empathize even if we disagree it's a lot easier to empathize and understand what someone is going through if that's someone
is actually someone in our life.
Matt, what would you add to that?
I agree with all of it.
I think sitting across from someone who thinks differently is so important because you get to put a face, a human face to the experience, rather than a biased perspective.
And you've heard the phrase, like, don't believe everything you read.
I think we'll take it one step further in this era.
Maybe don't believe everything you think.
And and put the brakes on on where your mind is at and then I would say like you know This is sort of what I'm in like infamous on this podcast for now as pastor of spiritual formation is like saying What is what you're consuming producing within you like when was the last like what is it motivating you towards are you feeling?
Are you feeling hostile?
Are you feeling angry?
Are you feeling grief and and what well like?
Why is that happening?
Like get to the bottom of that.
We crave certitude.
We want to make it simple to Phil's point and the more you're willing to lean into what you're feeling and the complexity of challenging issues, the more you are building understanding for others and resiliency for yourself in these conversations.
Yeah.
I love the becoming perspective, the
the part where, you know, in our search for trying to navigate what's right and wrong and where we stand in that, are we just trying to confirm that we are right to build ourselves up?
Or are we becoming people that are really seeking love or truth or what it means to become more true to who Jesus wants us to become?
So I love that, Matt.
And can you help us break down?
Maybe their origin story, where did they come from?
As a New Yorker, this is probably very close to you, especially after what happened in 9-11.
Yes.
Yeah.
I mean, that
actually launches it kind of perfectly because ICE was formed out of the immigration and naturalization services, INS, if you remember them.
After 9-11, it became pretty clear that we needed to do some things to better secure.
We never wanted to see anything like that happen again.
And Lord willing, at the scale, that has not happened since then, which we should all be very grateful for.
At the same time, the formation of this department
They began over time to get saddled with more responsibilities like have you ever had to wear multiple hats and things that you're doing and I would say if that's you and you're listening right now, did you do everything well when you were wearing all those hats at the same time?
That's kind of what's happening now.
So over time, immigration and customs enforcement, their mission has sort of shifted.
harder towards detaining and deporting undocumented immigrants has become like a like an interior issue for the u.s. and most most recently which is why we're having this escalated conversation is
for years their budget was in the single digit billions and just this morning I was working out listening to a news source and went on later to confirm it didn't take it at face value right away but yeah like it's closer to 80 billion dollars now because of the the big beautiful bill act in 2025 so you're seeing explosive growth they have 2x they're hiring in 2025 so they are
They are incredibly well-resourced now.
They're expanding like crazy.
And so that is just raising eyebrows.
And then additionally that, there's been a lot of hostile contentious situations for which they're directly involved right now.
And for those things, they're tragic and they're sad.
And so it creates this really challenging tension for people to say, what is happening here?
How did it happen so quickly?
But I think the complex part of it, the part that we want to gloss over is that we have needed
some form of enforcement and some form of adherence to the law that has been delayed, delayed, delayed for a really, really long time and so now what you're seeing is this high reaction, overreaction and over-correction
to what needed to be done in measured intervals over a really long time.
Now, that is my humble perspective.
They didn't teach me a statecraft and seminary, so I don't know if that was your experience, but yeah.
Condoleezza Rice is watching this show, all right?
You jokers.
I mean, I think that there is something too that I think what you just described is the way that probably the majority of Americans on both sides of the political divide would describe it.
But I also think it's important to name
that there is a very loud minority on one side of this conversation, that this is not a problem to be solved.
They believe we should have open borders actually fundamentally.
It's the idea that you can't trespass on stolen land.
And so America was never ours to begin with.
Therefore,
we should be able to let anybody be on it.
And so I think there's that vantage point.
And so the idea of abolish ice exists in that vantage point.
I think that would just candidly lead to anarchy.
The other side, I think there's this idea of there are 30 million undocumented workers and the vast majority of them within this worldview are dangerous, are threatening, are violent.
And so therefore this kind of scale of militarization is the only way to save our country, to pull it back.
And so I just think that you need to understand this is not everybody you're talking to.
And if you are in your mind right now, like there's somebody in your head, they didn't post the thing.
So you assume they're on the militarized everything side, like ask another question.
And for the love of all things, holy, ask it in person.
And if you're on the side where you're like, I may be lean more conservative and that person
posted a thing about how they were at a protest, and you assume they're a cultural Marxist that wants to abolish all borders, ask the next question.
I just think that the binary wants us to see whatever performative gesture we've identified, and then we tag it.
And that's that moral simplicity that is rarely accurate.
The hard part in navigating these conversations and inserting nuance here is you're talking about big overarching policy.
and then the intersection of extremely personal, like this is a people thing.
And so I don't even know if there's really a great answer to this, but how can we help navigate this complex, like bureaucratic problem that gets, it just gets complicated when you bring in people and perspectives and how does compassion
come into this.
But if I, if you're not on my side of compassion, then you have your, that's not compassion at all.
And so I don't really know what I'm asking.
I think I'm just bringing up a, there's a complexity here when we've probably already triggered people just by talking about this topic for sure.
They were triggered when they saw the title of this project.
And so I guess how can we step into conversations like this?
Well, what does humility look like in that?
And what does being able to
Yeah, I guess maybe how can we engage in the conversation in a way that would be healthy?
I mean, I'll just tag in real quick.
In that situation, especially if I see something that triggers me or causes a reaction within me and I want to start with myself, calibrating myself.
Things that I'm frustrated about, things that I'm angry about, things that might even produce outrage within me.
I've never felt or never, I've never produced clarity when I'm outraged.
I've never produced a durable like directional decision when I'm out of my mind.
And so like, I think if we could start by just saying to ourselves like, what is the thing that is within us that has been stirred?
And how do we take that back a little bit to pursue clarity?
I'm not saying that
You're wrong.
I'm just saying that we are all in some way vulnerable to different external situations in stimuli.
And maybe don't let your decision exclusively be defined by that.
So like I start with myself and those of like, what's the thing with him?
Why am I feeling this way?
How can I back it down?
Yeah, I would agree with that.
I might say it like the, you know, the scripture says the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God.
I might say,
the more angry you find yourself, the more your anger goes up, the more your discernment probably goes down.
And so you're just probably in a spot where, you know, I mean, I literally have had people in the last week where I opened up my email and I promise you I have 15 emails from the same person, all in a row.
And they're just all these individual posts on social media that they have sent me in an email.
and I'm going like, this is not good for you.
Like you are consuming outrage and it's selective outrage.
So I do think that what does it look like to maintain good personal healthy spiritual rhythms?
I also think your level of involvement and investment should go up the closer it is to you.
And so if we were in Minneapolis right now, I think our posture and involvement would look different.
That's just what it is.
Like we can't be
as involved across the country.
I have friends that are there.
I'm praying for them.
I'm checking on them.
But that's a different situation.
Just like if this was happening here, we would have a different level of involvement.
And so I think understanding what does it look like in your neighborhood?
What does it look like at your place of work or your school?
What does it look like in your community?
What does involvement look like for you?
How can you serve people who are immediately in need immediately around you?
I think it's just so easy for me to spend a lot of time as a critic of something that's happening nationally, and I use it as an excuse to do nothing locally.
And I think there's probably rebalancing that would be really helpful to say, what are the needs of your immediate community?
And is there really a reallocation of your internal resources that might be better to what you can do locally?
Doesn't mean don't pray for what's going on in the world.
That's not even limited to what's going on with ICE.
It's, you know, we think about Iran and nations around the world where there are atrocities on scales, we can't imagine that we should be lifting up and praying for, but our involvement, our active, what can I do today involvement?
God's put you in a place on purpose.
How do you show up well to the place that he's put you?
Yeah, it's interesting because we've kind of mapped out the human side of this.
We've talked about the history.
We've talked about the culture.
We've talked about where we are now.
And then when you add the additional layer of there is a spiritual force outside of this that is acting as well.
I mean, people can cherry pick Scripture that says, hey, you know, Scripture calls us to welcome the stranger.
And scripture tells us to obey order and authority and order in government.
I've seen both of those on my social media.
And so Matt's texting me.
I'm really strongly on one side.
And so how can we approach holding these truths together without flattening one or the other?
Yeah.
I mean, I think that what you're naming is that oftentimes we go to scripture
It's called proof texting.
We go to scripture with a viewpoint and we're looking for a passage that we're willing usually to pull out of context.
And then we're viewing our entire perspective through that individual passage of scripture and you're like, well, there's some constraints on that scripture.
That scripture has a context.
Now, I do think scripture has a definition, right?
Like there is information related to it, but there's also difficult hermeneutics or ways that we study the Bible
that we should be very clear about.
When we talk about welcoming a stranger,
We need to understand the difference between what's being commissioned of Israel because I don't think that people are saying let's align the United States government in 2026 to the Levitical law and the boundaries within which the mosaic code was implemented for the nation state of Israel thousands of years ago.
I don't think that's what people are saying.
They sort of have a selective view of theocracy where they want their own version of the pieces that they're gonna cherry pick and put in there.
The other aspect of it is a lot of times in the Bible, what we read is an individual call, an easy place to do this is in Acts two, where out of an overflow of what God was doing, they had all things in common.
They were all selling what they had and bringing it to it.
And I've heard people try to use that to justify a vision of socialism to say, hey, this collectivism that we see, this is what the government should do.
Look, it's what Acts two is doing.
But Acts two wasn't doing that because people were forcing them to do it.
And I'm not even saying that as like,
advocating one type of government.
I'm just saying the text itself is people voluntarily doing that.
People doing it individually.
And so recognizing there's a scope of what the government should do, but we can't just cherry pick to do it.
And then Romans 13 can't just be a blank check.
If you don't know Romans 13, it's the passage that says you should submit to the government officials over you.
It's not just a blank check to be good with whatever the government is doing.
If the government is doing things that scripture itself condemns, we should
As Christians, as ambassadors in a lost and broken world, our primary citizenship is heaven.
We should let it be known that what we see is unjust, is against the will and plan of God, and in as much as we have the ability to exert influence in the place we live, we should.
So I think it's just the hard part of everything I just said is complexity.
Everything I just said is nuance.
And so if every Bible passage
you can come up with aligns perfectly to one political vision, you are not reading the Bible, or you're not reading it correctly, because the vision of the kingdom of heaven is not a partisan vision.
It's political, it has lots of political leanings for us to press into and think about and challenge our viewpoints, and lots of different followers of Jesus have faithfully arrived at different answers, but it's gonna challenge both partisan wings of the party, especially right now, especially at the extremes.
And I think just, that's great.
And I think just like leveraging the scripture to give you enough information to confirm your own perspective is a damaging way to handle a sacred text.
It's designed for transformation by the power of the spirit.
And I think I'm just like, I actually turn it back to Genesis and chapter four, Cain kills Abel.
And the first thing that God says to him, does anyone know this one?
First thing that God says to Cain is, where is your brother?
Where is your brother?
And it's not like God didn't know.
And so to me, like that tells me two things.
One, violence grieves the heart of God.
And two, there's a question to ask in the midst of loss of life.
And that is where is your brother?
And like for me, I asked that question of myself when I am angered
towards another who I feel is deserving of justice that, by the way, I've excused myself from.
I want justice for others all, mercy for myself.
And I feel God leading me to ask the question, where is your brother?
And that just, that helps me remember it kindles something within me to not try to assign
or mishandle scripture to apply it only to the perspective that I want to hold most dear to my heart.
And honestly, I think like, I think a text, just a simple verse that balances out really well.
And yes, there is context behind it, but it's Micah.
Shout out to your boy.
Micah, six, eight, you know.
Love Jesus, baby.
Yes, exactly.
Justice, mercy.
To do justly, to love mercy.
We need justice, we need mercy, but in all of it, to walk humbly.
I mean, that sums it up like so well for me.
And I think that if there's a way for you to articulate what that means, right?
Because I think justice is one of those words that we all define differently.
And I think that, you know, on one political extreme right now, what justice looks like, especially economic justice is often defined as equality of outcome.
And on, you know, one vantage point, it's sort of equality of opportunity.
Other sides, it's just
you know, equality of scales, right?
So I think being able to name what that means, because we can use the same words, but with different definitions right now.
And then I also think what's really difficult
but really helpful and would be a super helpful conversation.
Because here's the thing, I'm going to tell you this suggestion.
You're going to be like, that's not going to make any difference.
Neither are your social media posts.
They're not going to make any difference.
So just hear me out.
This is maybe good for your soul.
Have a dinner table conversation.
There's actually a structure of this called Jefferson dinners.
It was the thing I talked about years ago.
But have a dinner conversation and say, hey, if we're up to you, what are the broad swaths of immigration policy that you think would be the right ones for America?
Because I think right now, both sides are actually not arguing from a position of here is my positive vision for the future.
They're both just criticizing.
They're both just critiquing.
So one looks at what's going on with ice and says abolish ice, dissolve the borders.
you know, whatever your version is, but a great way to get past the binary is like, man, what would you do?
How would you address the fact that there's millions of people here and there's people legally waiting in processes?
And honestly, some of this people would argue is because the processes we have are broken and overwhelmed.
Like, how do you manage that?
And how do you think about towns where people got shipped to those towns and the infrastructure of those towns can't support the number of people that are there?
Like, how do you navigate that?
You have people that are in other parts of the world that are trying to get here and they're trying to escape unthinkable
So like make a positive vision for your view of that.
And then on the other side, the people that are yelling at and criticizing the group of people that would have those views.
Okay, so like what is your take?
We're just gonna shut the borders down and anybody that doesn't look like you is out.
I know that's not your view.
So like, what is yours?
How would you approach it?
And we may discover that there's more common ground if we're able to aim at a solution and not just critique the present because I think that staying mad about what I don't like right now
I think is one of the easiest places for my flesh and the enemy of my soul to keep us in spinning together in a downward spiral for sure.
Yeah, it's so good.
I even thought it could be funny to gamify this a little bit, get a bunch of friends together.
You have 10 minutes to do a four Google slide presentation on how you fix the world.
Just get together with a bunch of friends and try to pitch that idea.
It could be really fun.
I feel you made an allusion to this being similar to the BLM movement at the beginning of the podcast, put that aside.
Let's put that in front now.
Yeah, I mean, I think that when I look back at that movement, at face value, Black Lives Matter, I think most people were like, yeah, Black Lives Matter.
And I have people in my life who are people of color that are going, I feel uniquely scared, right?
When we think back to the murder of George Floyd and the unique moment that we were in in culture at the time,
It was like, okay, well, yeah, yeah, what do I post?
What do I say?
I care about people and I want them to know that I care about people, but there are like violent riots happening in cities.
And it turns out that a bunch of the people that were taking money for Black Lives Matter ended up doing things that turned out to be like criminal and pretty shaky with that money that didn't go toward what people were thinking about giving.
but people that were on the other extreme, if you did anything, black box in your social media, hashtag BLM certainly showed up at a protest.
You also were a cultural Marxist that supported this view and supported the organization.
So it was this like, it was a binary that like at the time, I think we were all being deformed by something that was happening.
And as I was like seeing this stuff around the abolish ice thing, I was like, wait a second, I think it's happening again.
And I think that there's a group of people who are using an overwhelming public sentiment that obviously we don't want violence in our city.
Obviously people are created in the image of God with infinite dignity value and worth regardless of their legal status.
And how do we make sure that we're not seeing this thing get co-opted by one extreme or another, but we're making sure that our voice is heard
that we're able to communicate in more articulate terms.
And that probably means less share on social media and more share in person, more direct conversation.
Because I think, I mean, I think a lot of people got played last time and they thought they were doing the right thing.
They were trying to be kind and humane and they got manipulated into sort of co-signing on something that didn't fulfill the promises it was making.
Yeah.
I think humans have a, we have a special ability
to take like really significant things that should move us, trying to systematize it and then watching it become corrupt.
And that exists now and it has always existed for human history and will continue to exist.
And that's one of our ways of trying to reconcile living in a broken world is knowing that something is wrong, doing
what we think is our best move to fix it, but we're still not immune from the things that are within us that will ultimately compromise it.
And I'm not trying to be like a both sides guy, like this is not a moral equivalency, but if what we're describing is that if you get lots of power and lots of responsibility and lots of money, but you don't have accountability, it will eventually become corrupt.
I think if we're honest, there's a version of that that we can
put onto the BLM movement, certainly the organization behind it, we can do that with abolish ice.
And I think we can do it with ice.
Like the same thing that like we're criticizing one another, but we're all susceptible to the same proclivities like we have.
And so I hope that we can all go, hey,
we should want accountability for this.
Even if you think all this is necessary, you should want accountability to make sure that this stuff gets investigated.
I'm very grateful for law enforcement, very grateful for the way they keep our community safe.
And when there are people in the ranks of law enforcement,
that are doing harm.
I want accountability for those people because the people that are standing up and doing it the right way and serving communities well, they are showing up worse when we don't hold bad apples accountable.
And so for me, I'm looking at ICE right now and to Matt's earlier point, you know, think about your job right now.
If you, if you at your job tomorrow doubled the number of employees that you had and you created lots of financial incentives for them to join up and it was this kind of externally focused
Sort of militarized vision.
Can you imagine the rate at which you would have to onboard them?
Well to make sure it was the right culture the right fit that everybody came in with the right headset Man, that'd be pretty that'd be pretty tough.
Yeah, so I think that hopefully we can all get behind Hey, what is accountability like now?
I think we have to make sure that when we say that we don't just mean my version of accountability is
shut it all down forever.
That's not what accountability is.
Accountability is how do we do this well that can genuinely deescalate, that can do this in stages, that we can find common ground and that we can move forward together.
In a pluralistic society, we're not everybody's gonna come to the same conclusions.
Yeah.
There's a Barna study that came out recently that I think showed for the first time in a long time, Christians are getting out of politics.
Part of this is probably finding
the time to probably develop nuanced takes feels overwhelming.
I don't know if I can trust.
I know if I pick a side that means I'm picking this and half of my whatever else will now disown me or whatever else that looks like.
So, so where is hope in all of this?
Where does hope lie in what it means to be involved in politics, whether that's locally, whether that's with a national issue like this?
And how can we try to find that hope this week?
I mean, I would tell you this, God's on the throne.
You know, semi recently we had, you know, no Kings protests around here.
And we do have a king.
He's not going anywhere.
We didn't vote for him.
We didn't put him in.
Nothing's going to take him out.
And so I'd say as tricky as that feels, even maybe as dark as it may feel in America, remember that your primary citizenship is not earth.
or America, your primary citizenship, if you're a follower of Jesus, is heaven.
And so it doesn't mean that we have to have this like, nihilistic, oh my goodness, everything's going to be awful here.
But it means that's the framework that we start with, right?
Matthew 6, seek first the kingdom of heaven and God's righteousness and everything else.
will get sorted out in proper fashion.
I mean, I don't want to get too political here, but right now, the vision, and I understand the policy perspective of this, but the statement is America first.
Now, that's a policy statement.
I don't want to straw man this.
It's a policy.
I get it.
But I'm just saying, emotionally, be careful
that if you are somebody that holds to America first, that in your core conviction, it is kingdom of God first.
You know, like you understand, that's the biblical paradigm.
That's what we're called to.
And so I think as we do that, it sets the table much more clearly.
There's a book that we can put in the show notes that some guys who they had a podcast for a long time, Truth Over Tribe was the podcast, and they released a book and it had a bunch of different profiles
of different ways you could get involved politically that weren't just run for
National Office, but what were ways locally what were ways and issues that you cared about?
How could you be someone that?
Let your voice get heard and got involved more than just posting on social media so we can drop that book in the Comments, but is that truth over tribe pledging the allegiance to the lamb not the donkey or the elephant?
There it is.
That's so I think that trying to
Trying to find handles like that for what are you passionate about and what does it look like and then I think that the sad part about this is This is louder than it's ever been and because of technology and algorithms It's going faster than it's ever been so I don't want to minimize like this is at a scale.
We've never seen before But it isn't new and so if you go if you know global and even us history
We have struggled with these things a lot and have had pendulum swings back and forth.
And I think there's going to be a pendulum swing.
There is a circuit breaker that is going to flip likely this year when we have a midterm election and people are gonna get a chance to cast their vote and with that vote are going to come actions.
And in a divided government, the way that our nation is built is actually, it's built to put us at a standstill.
It's built to stop things.
And so it's gonna force us, I'm grateful, very grateful.
America is not perfect, but I think we won the historic lottery to live in America.
grateful for it and I think one of the brilliant elements of the way that our nation was constructed is that in a divided country it does stop things and so I think that it'll give us a chance to catch our breath in the event that we become a divided government which almost everyone at this point believes is going to take place and catch our breath and maybe maybe just maybe have a soul-searching moment now I would also say we're watching especially in a younger crowd the level of
cynicism and frustration that politics as the new religion for the last couple of decades showed up and you know was not effective we had the new atheism immediately after nine eleven that has by and large faded there's a podcast called the surprising resurgence of belief in god that documents that and then on the heels of that
politics certainly in the last 10 years just Accelerated as the answer became the new religion and I think the younger Generation is going hey the arguments kind of the flip and arguments of agnosticism and atheism I don't believe those arguments They've been tested and tried all the same access that gave us quick access to them on the internet also gave me tools to really research them and then politics as a
A worldview solving identity shaping answer to my soul is clearly not working.
Like it's just obvious that it's broken.
And I think that God is using all of that to awaken a younger generation to a purpose that's bigger than anything they can see here.
And I think it's drawing them back to God.
So the early, it's early returns on that.
But if you're going, where can I find hope?
I'm going, man, there's a generation of young people that are tired of all of this, and they're gonna get involved in politics, and they're gonna get involved in industry, and they're gonna get involved in business.
And I pray, they're gonna do that rooted in the identity of who they are in Jesus, and they get to bring hope into all those spaces.
That's a good word.
I think for me, like, let me put it this way.
I believe in secure borders around our souls.
Like that's what I want.
Jesus, there we go.
But seriously, a history lesson in just reminding ourselves that the state's not going to come to save you.
There's not a savior in the state.
And if you think America First is a statement that is going to endure the test of time, I just would kindly remind you there once was in Egypt first.
their once was a Babylon first, their once was a Rome first.
Like all of those have existed at some point.
I agree.
I love our nation.
I love the time that we're in.
It's a time of incredible privilege and opportunity at the same time.
And I feel that, but the state is not the kingdom of God.
We are ultimately citizens and so where else.
And if you're asking a human institution to save or redeem or secure you, that hope is sorely misplaced.
So just keep that in mind as you go forward.
Let's go fill anything else to add.
I hope that you listening to this, what I hope you walk away from this is a sober encouragement.
Because here's what I think in weeks like the ones we walk through, I think, am I the crazy one?
Because I see everything that's happening and I see the sides yelling at each other and I'm just thinking to myself, God in heaven, would you help us?
What is happening?
What is going on?
Nobody's listening.
Everybody's shouting and it feels
not just divisive, it feels manipulative, it feels demonic.
And so I hope that some of what you've heard is like, okay, this is sensible.
I may have a political view that's more defined than what they're highlighting.
And the reason that we do it that way, by the way, is because faithful followers of Jesus at Menlo
are gonna see the border conversation differently.
And that's okay.
Like your faith should inform your politics, not the other way around.
So we should have people that see this differently from one another.
That's okay.
And we should be able to live in peace.
We should be able to live in unity together even in the midst of that.
So while it is sobering, while we are praying for what's happening on the streets of Minneapolis,
What we are praying for, uh, government officials and leaders to stop talking at people across television stations, but to talk to people to one another, see peace and hope brought through, like I'm praying all I'm praying, I was praying that today.
Um, I also think I just hope you hear, um, guys not surprised.
He's still in charge and that's never changing.
Thanks for both of you for hopping on.
It's timely.
Like we said, things could change in the two days in which we recorded this until it gets released.
But I think the thing that I'm going to be thinking about this week that will not change is, am I more recognizable for my conclusions or my character?
And how am I letting that inform how I see the world?
and how I engage in this conversation.
So hopefully that's encouragement.
You can text our team 650-650-60402.
Have a great week, everybody, and we'll see you soon.
See you.